# A Multiverse Manifesto
The purpose of the metaverse is for it to be explored. That's it. It exists for you, the user, to experience, to enjoy; that is its reason: to be. Like our world, it was created and exists outside of ourselves. It is a gift, free and unencumbered except by those rules we impose on others. It is not owned nor controlled by any single individual or corporation. While sections may be moderated, it is open to all. 
## Definitions
The metaverse is a set of universes. 
Each Universe has physical principles, rules, dimensions and a style, and contains a set of solar systems. 
Physical principles are things like gravity, mass, solids, light and so forth. We are going to skp the level of galaxies and nebula and star clusters and all that and drop from universe right to solar system. Rules include things like whether things cost money, what can be owned and what is right and wrong behavior (governance, regulations, law and order).7
Role-Based access control is enforced; only certain people will be able to, say, move a newspaper to the trash can, or add other users, or approve content for display. 
Each solar system has a name, may have a sun (central star), that governs orbits and lighting and how things look, and a set of orbiting celestial bodies. 
Each celestial body may be patterned after a real or imaginary planet, moon, or asteroid. The body is governed by the universal principles and its sun. If the world designer so chooses, it can have land and seas and lava and ice, or none of that. The body can be a whole planet as big as Jupiter or a small moon like Io or simply floating plates. 
Planets orbit the sun, and moons orbit non-suns, like planets or other moons. We refer to contiguous "land" as a plate, like a tectonic plate.
On a planet, based on the shape of the planet, location is defined by a set of planetary coordinates that place everything, like the sofa/chair you are presently sitting on. 
A place is comprised of a location (loc) vector, which is a set of XYZ points, and an XYZ rotation (which way is it facing), and an XYZ scale to describe how it currently stretched. The location-rotation-scale (locrotsca) may be static (as if adrift in space), or may be tied to some other object, like the planet-plate that it is on, or may be tied to an arbitrary curve that describes its motion over time. An object is a type of person, place, or thing, about which we care to have metadata. An object has a set of surfaces described as local (to the center of the object) triangles or squares defined by three or four points in space. 
Each surface has a lot of metadata, such as the color, texture, subsurface scattering, and pliability. The surface points can be static, or controlled by an arbitrary curve, mathmatical function, or armature. The texture may be a mathmatical function (Vernoi) or may be a set of images. Each image is mapped to the surface by a texture map which maps the image to the surface and affects some aspect of the surface rendering (base color, bump, SSS, specular color, etc) to some degree. 
An armature is an object that consists of a set of bones; each bone may be free-floating or be connected to other bones. Bones are a simple way to describe the way bodies move over time, and are organized into poses. Surfaces can be mapped to an armature so that the surface moves (is displaced) as the bones move. Rigs can be derived to simply control the many bones within, just like the cross you hold to control the puppet on a string. 
## About Economies
Along the way, if the universe has an economy, you can work and earn, you can buy and enjoy, or if it doesn't, then simply explore, chill and relax, or just zen be. Admittance to the metaverse is free, but providers and vendors in a universe with an economy may charge for certain services. Who they charge, when they charge, and what they charge, can get complicated but we have it all modelled out and you can see and control that at any time through your control panel. 
Content may be supplied at varying resolutions or versions. In a universe with an economy, certain content versions/resolutions may be free, while others may cost - this is all governed by the metadata supplied. For example, that newspaper on the coffee table may show an informative headline to you for free as you glance at it, but to actually read the entire article may cost you a subscription. Other content may interject ads (which provide hidden revenue to the publisher) but allow you to view the content at no cost to you (except for your time and attention, which is valuable). In short, some content may be donated while other content is designed to fuel a company or individual in their real life. Let's face it: we all need revenue to pay the bills, and in an economy-based universe, money makes the world go 'round. 
## Viewing the Metaverse
You can use a web brower to view the metaverse in a somewhat limited but navigational 2D mode. If you possess Virtual Reality or Augmented Reality glasses, you can plug in to view and experience the metaverse. You can also use the opensource graphics package [Blender] (http://www.blender.org) (with multiverse plugins) to view (and contribute to) the multiverse. 
Objects may choose to show you metadata about them. For example, when looking at a motorcycle, it may care to share that it is going on sale next week. This choice may be triggered by something you do, or simply some time function, or something about its surroundings. IF you get lost wandering the streets of augmented Rome, Italy, you may choose to float a help balloon over your head that says "I am Lost!" or "Where is the nearest bathroom? Donde el bano?" to see if an english-speaking or spanish-speaking user can see your balloon and help you. I am of course imagining a time when many people are wearing augmented reality glasses and are tied into the metaverse. Critical mass rules, people! 
Since the general multiverse operates under the jurisdiction of the USA, it must have all content and user behavior moderated. For example, it is a universal truth that one user does not have the right to deface or destroy other user's posessions. Each Universe within the multiverse operates under the jurisdiction of the country where its server cluster is located, with content moderated to conform to that country's laws. Thus, one universe may allow the purchase and sale of certain substances or services, while another universe will not. Keep in mind that parallel universes are allowed to exist side by side, but each universe is indeed separate. 
Thus, the multiverse must have some moderators, and some mechanism to pay the moderators; it must then have some overarching (if minimal) economy, even for user economy-free universes. The rules of entry, participation, and moderation will be clearly spelled out in that universe's treatise and all users have to agree to subject themselves to those rules before and while in that universe. Like countries or city-states, each universe has its own right to declare its own laws to govern behavior, subject to the multiverse's universal laws. These may be at conflict with one another across universes; one country may legislate and permit prostitution or drug use or women avatars to wear normal clothes, while others may prohibit it. In order for the Multiverse to be legal, the servers for a universe will be located in a country where that universe's treatise is legal. Thus, no "illegal content" can ever be served, and vistors to that universe are protected from content that would violate that country's laws. 
## Contributing Content
Content to the metaverse is provided by contributors registering to supply content. Content is provided (at this time) by uploading blend files that have specific metadata about the contributor and the content.
Everyone registered can contribute content. If contributed to an economy-based universe, you can specify a payback scheme by which you or some charitable organization will collect royalties based on content views and usage. In the newspaper example, the provider may be the Wall Street Journal or New York Times, and collect subscription revenue. In other examples, the fountain in the town square that you are admiring collects a penny for every minute someone stares at it, paid for by the square owner. 
## Economics 101
That brings us to the concept of an economy. Each universe may or may not have an economy and therefore involve money in conducting day to day life. A universe without an economy is a Star-Trek sort of Open Source reality. No one "owns" anything but each person can provide products and services (at no cost) simply for the satisfaction of providing them. With an economy, each user (individual or corporation) gets a wallet and can spend it own whatever they choose. Money in the wallet can be earned by doing things in the metaverse (exchanging your time and skills for money) or transferred from the real world via a rate of exchange. You may choose to teach a class on programming or English as a second language and receive metaverse credits that you can use to buy and own other things. 
In universes with an economy, it begs the question of ownership rights and real estate control. There is, in western culture, an intrinsic sense that a user can own things, including things that it did not make itself, like dirt. The concept of Ownership brings rights and control over things, and how other users need to treat your things. However, since the user did not make the dirt, it has to buy it from someone who first claimed it. Once owned, does the user have the right to bar or admit only certain users? I have grappled a lot with this, and decided that it will be a universal constant as to whether a user can create a planet and then sell off parts of it to visitors; a free market in solar system expansion if you will, or whether there is no right to own land, or something in between. This is an interesting area to evolve. As a God-fearing American, I believe there are basic universal human rights, such as the right to free speech, and to protect yourself, and the moral obligation to protect the innocent from harm, and the obligation to respect other people and not exploit them. Obviously, other countries/cultures do not agree with me, and that is reality, and some universes should reflect that reality. 
Buying and selling things is accomplished in a universe with an economy and in virtual reality using secure wallets tied to your persona. In Augmented Reality you will actually conduct business outside the metaverse, although the metaverse may get feeds or you may care to share your purchase.
## Parallel Universes
Each universe can have parallel universes. In the parallel universe, things (geography) are a lot like the other parallel universes, but some settings will be different. In one universe, your avatar may look a lot like how you actually look and things will pretty much look real. But in the cartoon parallel universe, everything may look like a Walt Disney or Pixar movie. 
